Title: ABZ Planning: the Entrepreneurial Approach to Career Plans
URL: https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/abz-planning-entrepreneurial-approach-career-plans-reid-hoffman/
Author: Reid Hoffman
Published: Jun 1, 2022
---
Entrepreneurs must continually make choices in situations where they don't have all the information they need. They have to make choices into the fog of the unknown. To meet this constant uncertainty, entrepreneurs use action-based trial and error to test specific hypotheses. They place small bets and respond to the outcomes.

To grow and change in your career, you also need to make decisions and take action based on unknown and unknowable factors. No matter how old you are or what stage you're in, you will always be adapting to change and, hopefully, planning for growth. It's a process as important for someone in their forties or fifties as for a newly-minted college grad. ABZ Planning creates a framework for thinking like an entrepreneur about your career: place small bets, maneuver in response, change course if necessary, and always have a back-up plan.

So what do A, B, and Z refer to?

Plan A is what you're doing right now. It's your current implementation of your competitive advantage. Within a Plan A you make minor adjustments as you learn, and iterate regularly.
Plan B is what you pivot to when you need to change either your goal or the route for getting there — sometimes because Plan A isn't working; sometimes because you've discovered a better opportunity; sometimes because you just change.
Plan Z is the fallback position: your lifeboat if you end up being thrown into rough waters. It is the plan if all your other plans fall apart. The certainty of Plan Z is what allows you to take on uncertainty and risk in your Plans A and B.

My original career Plan A was to pursue academia because I thought it would be the best way to have an impact on the world — by spreading ideas about what made a good society. As I studied at Oxford, I learned much about how people come together, interact in groups, and relate to society. But I also learned that career success in academia too often meant producing specialized writings that only 50 or so people ever read.

This realization led me to shift to a Plan B and find a career path that had a broader impact. My Plan B was to build new software. Success in the software industry also meant "impact"—but on a much broader scale than academia. In some cases, it meant building a product that improved the lives of millions of people every day.

When you're in need of a Plan B pivot, it's not always obvious how to find or vet viable paths. Experts on cognition and learning will tell you that practical knowledge is best developed by doing, not just thinking or planning. This applies to careers, too: To uncover the right Plan B, you have to seek new experiences that bring you into contact with real people and real outcomes.

When I moved to the business world, I mistakenly thought my competitive advantage was being able to hold complexity in my head and master abstractions. But when I started working and reflecting, I discovered my real advantage in the internet industry was having the ability to think simultaneously about individual psychology and social dynamics on a massive scale.

A good first Plan B step generates a large number of possible follow-on next steps. The "doing," of course, shouldn't be random. The Plan Bs you toy with should leverage your assets, set you in the direction of your aspirations, and account for the market realities. Don't just default to action for action's sake. Not sure if you can break into the pharmaceutical industry as your Plan B? Spend six months interning at Pfizer and see what happens. Curious whether marketing or product development is a better fit than what you currently do? If you work in a company where those functions exist, offer to help out for free. Whatever the situation, thoughtful actions — not plans — generate lessons that help you test your hypotheses against reality. And then Plan B appears. Learn by doing. And do things with what you learn.

We all want to grow. ABZ Planning helps you grow in a deliberate, systematic way instead of haphazardly. ABZ Planning embraces iterative learning, experience by experience. When you take an experimental approach to finding your Plan B, occasional missteps are to be expected. They are the "error" part of trial and error. Don't get discouraged! Remember that the great attribute of such experiments is that they're reversible. Start with a trial period. In other words, keep your day job until the fog of the unknown clears. Soon enough what was once Plan B will become your Plan A — your new life.

—

Please share in the comments section: How have you implemented ABZ Planning in your career?

Some text adapted from my book with Ben Casnocha: The Startup of You: Adapt, Take Risks, Grow Your Network, and Transform Your Career (Currency, an imprint of Random House, 2022).
