Title: I-to-the-We: You and Your Team
URL: https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/i-to-the-we-you-your-team-reid-hoffman/
Author: Reid Hoffman
Published: June 14, 2022
---
Despite the fact that nothing important in life is done alone, we live in a hero-obsessed culture. If you survey the population, asking people how they think a company like Tesla skyrocketed to prominence, you'll probably hear all about Elon Musk but not a peep about the team he built around him, which was essential to his success. Can you name another executive or employee who works at Tesla or SpaceX?

But if you study the life of any notable person, you'll find that the main character operates within a web of allies. We are enmeshed in cities, companies, organizations, families, society at large—collections of people who shape us, help us, and yes, sometimes even hurt us. It is impossible to dissociate an individual from the environment of which they are a part.

The self-made person may be a myth, but the old saying "There is no I in team" is wrong, too. There is an "I" in team. A team is made up of individuals with different strengths and abilities. Simone Biles needed her teammates to become the United States' leading gold medalist in gymnastics (as points are awarded on a team basis). Yet no one would dispute that she has been more crucial to the American team's Olympic success than anyone else in recent memory. Conversely, one bad apple in an otherwise high-performing group can spoil the whole bunch.

So "I" versus "We" is a false choice. Both the individual and the team matter. Your career success depends on both your personal capabilities and your network's ability to magnify them. These are inseparable. Think of it as I-to-the-We. An individual's power is raised exponentially with the help of a team (a network). As you meet your friends and new people, shift from asking yourself the very natural question of "What's in it for me?" and ask instead, "What's in it for us?"

Many people are turned off by the topic of networking. They think it feels slimy, inauthentic. We've all met the consummate networker: the high-energy fast-talker who glad-hands at networking events with a smarmy intensity. That is not networking.

Real networking is about building genuine, reciprocal relationships. This requires at least two skills:

See the world from the other person's perspective. Entrepreneurs usually do this pretty well when anticipating customer wants and needs.
Focus on what you can give to others, rather than what you can get from others. It's not that a self-interested thought should never cross your mind; but try to let go of those easy thoughts and think about how you can help first—and only later think about what help you might ask for in return.

A study on negotiation found that a key difference between skilled negotiators and average negotiators was the time they spent searching for shared interests, asking questions, and forging common ground, as opposed to just trying to drive a hard bargain out of pure self-interest.

Start with a friendly gesture toward the other person—and genuinely mean it. Generous relationship builders, or "givers," try to help other people first. They don't keep score. They're aware that many good deeds get reciprocated, but they're not calculating about it. And they think about their relationships all the time, not just when they need something.

Sometimes people may give off a bad impression by trying too hard to seem genuine and caring. When you can tell someone is performing sincerity, it leaves you cold. Unless the process of bonding with and helping others comes off as effortlessly as tying your shoes — which is to say, unless it's what you really want to be doing — the collaborative mindset will fail, and so, ultimately, will the relationship.

Remember this: Relationships are fun! In your happiest memories, were you alone or were you surrounded by friends or family? I'm guessing it's the latter. Building relationships is about connection, and connection should be fun. I love the complexity of human interactions, and get excited at the prospect of working with others. It enlarges the sense of what's possible and expands the box in which we think. You don't have to be an extrovert or the life of the party. Building relationships is the thrilling, if delicate, quest to at once understand another person and allow that person to understand you.

—

Please share in the comments section: How have you built positive, authentic relationships?

Text adapted from my book with Ben Casnocha: The Startup of You: Adapt, Take Risks, Grow Your Network, and Transform Your Career (Currency, an imprint of Random House, 2022).
